# Question-I:

Description:

Given image as an input, can be compressed using Huffman lossless compression algorithm to save space and to perform operations on the images faster. Huffman coding uses frequency of the symbols to generate a tree and perform compression based on it. Later on, the same compressed form of an image can be decoded using the code book generated by Huffman encoding.

Image compression can be done using many ways. Instead of taking histogram and normalizing it, we have taken image matrix and converted it into string. By converting, we can see that we only need 14 levels to generate Huffman tree which is optimized way in terms of both space as well as time. Below are the only unique symbols required for the Huffman tree encoding instead of 256 unique pixel values:

['[', '1', ',', ' ', '0', '2', '4', '3', '8', '5', '9', '6', '7', ']']

Same operations can be performed on text as well. Just that frequency of letters in the text is used to generate Huffman tree.


Dependencies used:

-Pycharm 2019 (Python IDE)
#numpy: to load the image segment 
#PIL: to import/export image
#re: to use regular expressions on a text


How To Run the program?

To modify parameters, head over to the main function block and change the respective value of the variable.
Here, As message_to_encode is an optional parameter, if not provided function will decode the compressed file as an uncompressed "output_image.jpg" image, which will be similar to the original input. If provided, will give encoded message for the given parameter value. After heading to the directory of the program, following is the command to run the program in terminal:

> python DIP-A2-Q1-G10.py

the output will be printed in the same terminal window and the output_image.jpg will be stored in the same directory.


-----------------------------------------------------------------

# Question-II:

Description:

Write the algorithm to perform Arithmetic coding on text messages or single channel images.
The function 'arithmetic_coding' is takes three inputs:-
1. A 2-D matrix having two columns, one representing symbol and the other representing the corresponding probabilities. OR A single channel image.
2. A number 'N' representing the number of unique symbols.
3. A variable called message which is an array of characters arranged in sequence in order to make the message which we are interested in encoding.


Dependencies used:

-Pycharm 2019 (Python IDE)
#numpy: to load the image segment
#pandas: allows operating on data
#cv2: to import/export image


How to run the program?

1. Make input_1 ready- 
         a) if want to encode an image, make sure that you upload the image in same folder in which the .py file is present.
         b) copy the image name and replace it with the original image name.
         c) if want to encode a message, prepare an array containing the message (for ex. ['a1','a2','a3','a3','a4']) and replace it with the existing array which is stored in variable named message.
         d) prepare a matrix (Nx2) first column having unique symbols in message, and second column having their corresponding probabilities. Replace this matrix with the original input which is stored in variable named sym_prob_mat (meaning= Symbol Probability Matrix)
2. Make input_2 ready-
         a) replace the value of variable named 'N' by a number which is the number of unique elements or symbols in the message
3. Make input_3 ready-
         a) prepare an array containing the message (for ex. ['a1','a2','a3','a3','a4']) and replace it with the existing array which is stored in variable named message.   

> python DIP-A2-Q2-G10.py  (if want to run in python IDE) 
> %run DIP-A2-Q2-G10.py    (if want to run .py in jupyter notebook)     
